# 引言

Soccer referees are a specific group of athletes whose careers reach the highest level between 30 and 45<sup>(1)</sup>. They are considered athletes because following regular and intensive training programmes to have a high level of performance<sup>(2)</sup>. They must have excellent refereeing knowledge, good communication skills and ensure good emotional control for successful match management<sup>(3)</sup>. As with all other sports, referees must have an optimal fitness level to perform a good performance<sup>(4)</sup>.

For elite athletes, nutritional strategies have become important in their physical condition and training. The referee’s performance is influenced by factors such as physical training, eating behaviours and body composition<sup>(1)</sup>. Diet quality affects body composition<sup>(5)</sup>. To maintain and improve their performance, soccer referees are recommended to consume a highquality diet, to have optimal body composition. Determining the required intake amounts in terms of energy, macro and micronutrients is essential. A limited number of studies examine soccer referees’ nutritional behaviour. Teixeira *et al*.<sup>(6)</sup> found that the referees’ carbohydrate intake was below the recommended level and they were malnourished in terms of micronutrients. Another study stated that dietary energy from carbohydrates was not sufficient when considering
their work<sup>(4)</sup>.

Soccer referees have a maximum oxygen uptake of 51.9 ml/ kg/min and perform similarly to soccer players covering a distance of approximately 10 000–13 000 metres (m) throughout the match<sup>(7,8)</sup>. While there are guidelines<sup>(9)</sup> for athlete nutrition, there is no guideline for soccer referees. Referees who are on average 15 years older than elite athletes should not be ignored when it comes to proper nutrition recommendations. Today, elite soccer referees are given nutritional recommendations similar to those of soccer players, regardless of differences in age, type of activity, body composition and physical condition<sup>(10)</sup>. Optimal body composition enables athletes to move more effectively during training and competitions<sup>(11,12)</sup>. Therefore, it is important to assess the nutritional status and determine the relationship between body composition and athletic performance in soccer referees. The present study aimed at nutritional assessment and examined the relationship between athletic performance and body composition in soccer referees at different levels.
